Despite regressing to a qualified audit opinion, Msunduzi Municipality still has ambitions to obtain a clean audit in the current 2022/2023 financial year. The mayor, Mzimkhulu Thebolla, said on Wednesday that the municipality was putting together a voluntary financial recovery plan to address what was raised in the mid-term assessment report. Thebolla said the R7,1 billion budget for this financial year will be adjusted downwards at the adjustment period. He added that each municipal department will also cut down its budget by at least 20%. We are still committed to ensuring a clean audit for the 2022/2023 financial year. The AG [auditor-general] action plan has been dealt with by the executive council of the municipality. It will be going to council for approval and the city manager will ensure reporting to all council portfolio structures on a monthly and quarterly basis. He said they’ve also adopted the AG’s action plan for implementation by all relevant stakeholders in the municipality. This audit action plan includes the root causes, planned corrective measures to address the findings, target dates/timeframes and progress to date. The city’s revenues from external investments, rental of facilities, equipment, and other revenue are less than initially projected in the annual budget. Thebolla said it was important to note that going towards the mid-year budget adjustment, they will be adjusting downwards. The operational expenditure, which includes bulk purchases and employee-related costs, took 68% of the annual budget expenditure. By December, the total year to date was about R3 billion while the year to date budget was R3,227 billion. Overall, the municipality recorded an operating surplus of R401,862 million for the sixth month of the financial year. Meanwhile, the year to date actual capital expenditure for the period ending December 31, 2022 amounted to R228 million while the year to date budget amounted to R417 million, resulting in an underperformance of R189,660 million, at -45% of the capital budget. Thebolla said this under-performance had a direct negative impact on service delivery, which was a concern. He said they’ve put measures in place to ensure the acceleration of expenditure on capital projects to improve service delivery. He added the municipality’s performance on service delivery objectives has not been as great as it was planned with service delivery objectives sitting below 20% due to budget constraints. The mayor said it will be critical to also present a turnaround plan that will ensure the achievement of all indicators at 100% by the end of the current financial year. It should also be noted that the other contributing factor on overall underspending is due to capital projects budgeted from borrowings, which the municipality can only spend upon receipt of approval of funding from the Development Bank of Southern Africa [DBSA].As part of our budget, we have planned to borrow from the DBSA but until we receive the loan, we cannot spend because we’ll be spending what we don’t have. The ministerial representative, Martin Sithole, said Msunduzi was on the road to full recovery. He said it would take a few weeks or months for improvements to be noticed. Sithole added that the current administration has tried to turn around service delivery issues. The only section that still needs attention is finances [and] there are programmes and strategies in place which will ensure the finances of the municipality are turned around.If we all pull it together, this City of Choice will be in the bright spot in South Africa. Meanwhile, Msunduzi introduced the new general manager for infrastructure, Sabelo Hlela. Thebolla said the position had been vacant for a while and hoped the new general manager will deal with many infrastructure challenges faced by the city. We are expecting a very short turnaround time where challenges are reported in terms of water, issues of road infrastructure and addressed and attended to on time.Most of these challenges can be dealt with, all we need is proper forward planning, a proper maintenance plan and implementation so that the people of our city get what they deserve.