Residents of the Midlands may not have been shocked to hear that paddlers are being warned over water quality ahead of this month’s Dusi Canoe Marathon. Since service delivery problems and public maladministration have long stained these paths, residents realise the effects of this on the river quality. This after Dusi organisers admitted to The Witness that E.coli levels in the race’s rivers are far higher than what is deemed safe for recreational purposes. ALSO READ | Paddlers warned over water quality ahead of Dusi Marathon A result of the sorry situation is that the canoe marathon entry rules are forced to include a significant health warning. Spokesperson for the organisers, Brad Glasspoole, confirmed that potential entrants are being told to give the event a miss if they are scared of getting sick as a result of the poor water quality. He said, with welcomed transparency: “As everyone is aware, the issue of water quality in our urban rivers is a nationwide concern and not something that is isolated to KwaZulu-Natal and the Dusi Canoe Marathon. “… We understand that some might be deterred by the current situation in our rivers; however, there are paddlers who have paddled every year, in very similar conditions, and will be back again in 2023; this is who we are targeting at the 2023 Dusi Canoe Marathon.” The paddling community will certainly be happy with this level of openness shown by the organisers, as it allows them to make an informed decision about entering the race. ALSO READ | E.Coli levels at Durban beaches acceptable The Dusi is an established part of the region’s cultural scene and adds some rands to the economy, while also serving to highlight the natural beauty of the Valley of a Thousand Hills. As such, it deserves great attention and the organisers will be urged to keep looking for solutions to the persistent health problem. It would be a shame for the competition to end up as a much smaller event in coming years as another negative spin-off of the desperate socioeconomic climate and neglect of sewerage systems.