The Proteas Women will enter the T20 World Cup with leadership from Suné Luus and Chloé Tryon on the pitch and hoped-for passion from the stands in the home tournament. On Tuesday, Cricket South Africa’s (CSA) selection panel confirmed a 15-player squad that will represent the country in the eagerly-awaited tournament from February 10 to 26.  The team will be captained by all-rounder Luus, with Tryon continuing her role as vice-captain. The pair are currently leading South Africa in the ongoing Women’s T20 International Tri-Series against India and the West Indies in East London, with all three nations preparing for the global showpiece. ALSO READ | SA’s Ismail makes ICC women’s ODI team of the year Currently ranked fifth in the ICC Women’s T20 team rankings, the Proteas Women will kick off their tournament in the opening game of the World Cup against Sri Lanka next Friday, February 10, at the Newlands Cricket Ground in Cape Town. South Africa will then complete their Group A fixtures with ties against New Zealand (February 13), the defending champions Australia (February 18) and Bangladesh (February 21), in an effort to qualify for their second straight T20 World Cup semi-final following their impressive showing at Australia 2020, according to CSA. Group B is made up of England, India, and Pakistan, as well as the West Indies and Ireland. The top two teams in the group will advance to the semi-finals before the champions are crowned in a grand finale on Sunday, February 26, at Newlands. ALSO READ | Proteas Women focus on Commonwealth Games CSA director of cricket, Enoch Nkwe said in a statement: “The Proteas Women have developed into a powerhouse in world cricket over the last decade, with the team making multiple semi-finals along the way. “This group of players have been gifted with the once-in-a-career opportunity of playing in a World Cup on home soil and we believe this crop of players have the ability to rise to the occasion and give it their all.” Proteas squad: Suné Luus (Titans, captain), Chloé Tryon (Dolphins, vice-captain), Anneke Bosch (North West Dragons), Tazmin Brits (Garden Route Badgers), Nadine de Klerk (Western Province), Annerie Dercksen (Garden Route Badgers), Lara Goodall (Western Province), Shabnim Ismail (Dolphins), Sinalo Jafta (Western Province), Marizanne Kapp (Eastern Province), Ayabonga Khaka (Lions), Masabata Klaas (North West Dragons), Nonkululeko Mlaba (Dolphins), Delmi Tucker (Western Province), Laura Wolvaardt (Western Province).Non-traveling Reserves: Micaéla Andrews (Garden Route Badgers), Tebogo Macheke (Titans), Tumi Sekhukhune (Lions) Friday, February 10 – 7 pmGroup A, Match 1 – South Africa v Sri Lanka(Newlands, Cape Town)Monday, February 13 – 7 pmGroup A, Match 2 – South Africa v New Zealand(Boland Park, Paarl)Saturday, February 18 – 7 pmGroup A, Match 3 – South Africa v Australia(St George’s Park, Gqeberha)Tuesday, February 21 – 7 pmGroup A, Match 4 – South Africa v Bangladesh(Newlands, Cape Town)Thursday, February 23 – 3 pmSemi-Final 1 (Newlands, Cape Town)Friday, February 24 – 3 pmSemi-Final 2 (Newlands, Cape Town)Sunday, February 26 – 3 pmFinal (Newlands, Cape Town)