Songs of celebration echoed over the Karkloof Valley as the pupils and staff at Yarrow Intermediate School were presented with a new library in a double-decker bus. Situated on the top level of a stationary, bright red, double-decker bus, the space is furnished with pink, yellow and purple cushions and seating. It can accommodate up to 60 children from Grade R to Grade 7 at a time. The bus was presented to the school by Absa, as part of its legacy project to empower communities through education. ALSO READ | Gift of the Givers refurbish KZN schools affected by April floods Sydney Mbhele, the bank’s group chief brand, marketing and corporate affairs officer, said: “Absa aims to enable meaningful impact in the communities in which we operate.” As part of the project, Absa will also maintain the library. Andrew Nicholson, chairperson of the Marriott Karkloof Country Club, said he is delighted that the bus is finally in place. “Absa came to the club in 2022 to hold its annual Absa Cape Epic training camp, and during this time our vision on education and shared values was discussed. Several months ago, the club was approached by Absa with a proposal to create a library in a double-decker bus for one of the schools.” The project was planned, site meetings held and during the last week in January the project came together. The concrete slab was also made big enough to hold the school’s kitchen and storage container. ALSO READ | Education MEC says KZN shows most improvement The library is the latest in a series of education-related projects undertaken by the club. It has previously funded the training of an ECD teacher and created a toy library for the pupils at Yarrow. The school’s existing library, which is also used as a classroom, will be moved to the bus this month. Mary Gray, who heads both the library and early childhood development projects at the school, will be working with her team to collate the books using a simple colour-coding system. “Once the library is functional, the children will be issued with book bags and will exchange books once a week,” Nicholson said. Gray expressed her sincere gratitude to Absa for its donation. Children will now enjoy story time in the comfort of the stationary bus, which will also serve as a research centre for projects. In the future, we would like to extend the use of the library to include adults in the community. This will be for information sharing where we could invite guest speakers and share valuable information. The handover of the new library was attended by cyclists taking part in this year’s training camp for the Absa Cape Epic at the Karkloof Country Club. The internationally renowned mountain-biking race takes place from March 19 to 26. Riders taking part in the eight-day stage race cover 658 km with 15 775 metres of climbing. ALSO READ | PMB matriculants excel despite their challenges Also at the presentation were uMngeni mayor, councillor Chris Pappas, Pietermaritzburg’s world champion mountain biker Greg Minnaar, and former Springbok Joel Stransky.