Springbok star Eben “The Enforcer” Etzebeth was named on Tuesday as SA Rugby’s Player of the Year for 2022 as a result of top showings by the lock last year, while Canan Moodie won the Young Player of the Year award and Nadine Roos was named Springbok Women’s Player of the Year. The 31-year-old Etzebeth, who made his Test debut in 2012 and reached his 100th Test against Wales in July earned the award for the first time after narrowly losing out to Springbok captain Siya Kolisi in 2021, but last season the towering lock was a constant star in the green and gold, along with fellow nominees for the top award in Kolisi, Lukhanyo Am, Kurt-Lee Arendse and Frans Malherbe, according to SA Rugby. Moodie, who celebrated his Springbok debut last year with a superb try against Australia in Sydney while still an Under-20, was voted as the Young Player of the Year.  ALSO READ | Sharks brace for Bègles He was nominated ahead of Sacha Feinberg-Mngomezulu, Jaden Hendrikse, Evan Roos and Henco van Wyk, underlining the rich vein of talent coming through in South Africa. Nadine Roos highlighted her versatility in 2022 as she shone for both the national XVs and sevens teams in two Rugby World Cup tournaments, and she was rewarded for her brilliant form by being included in the World Rugby Dream Team after the RWC Sevens in Cape Town in September. The other nominees were 2021 winner, Lusanda Dumke (flanker), as well as No. 8 Aseza Hele, who won the award in 2019, as well as midfield stars Zintle Mpupha and Aphiwe Ngwevu, SA Rugby said in a statement. Hard-working forward JC Pretorius won the award for Springbok Sevens Player of the Year during a season in which the Blitzboks won four tournaments and just missed out on the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series title.  The other nominees were Selvyn Davids and Zain Davids. Feinberg-Mngomezulu, who led the SA Under-20s to a clean sweep of four wins in the Six Nations U20 Summer Series in Italy, was named Junior Springbok Player of the Year, edging out teammates Suleiman Hartzenberg and Ruan Venter. ALSO READ | Sharks aim to improve log position in tough URC The Stormers, who won the inaugural Vodacom United Rugby Championship, were voted as the Team of the Year, with John Dobson duly taking the award for Coach of the Year (Evan Roos was named Vodacom URC Player of the Season last year June).  The other nominees in these two categories were the Springboks and Jacques Nienaber, and the Airlink Pumas and Jimmy Stonehouse. The Pumas’ triumph in the Carling Currie Cup was reflected in the award for Premier Division Player of the Year, which was won by Sebastian de Klerk.  He edged out provincial teammates Willie Engelbrecht and Devon Williams for the title. The award for Carling Currie Cup First Division Player of the Year was won by Griffons scrumhalf Jaywinn Juries, who contributed a massive 169 points to the Northern Free Staters’ cause, earning them promotion to the Premier Division. Dumke, who led the Border Ladies to a second successive Women’s Premier Division title, was named Provincial Women’s Player of the Year. The Referee of the Year, for a second successive season, is Aimee Barrett-Theron, who represented South Africa at the Rugby World Cup in New Zealand. ALSO READ | Sharks to avoid discliplinary issues in France, says Bongi Barrett-Theron also made her debut in the Vodacom URC, establishing her as one of the foremost women’s referees in the world. SA Rugby Player of the Year: Eben EtzebethSA Rugby Young Player of the Year:Canan Moodie (Springboks / Bulls)Springbok Women’s Player of the Year:Nadine RoosSpringbok Sevens Player of the Year:JC PretoriusJunior Springbok Player of the Year:Sacha Feinberg-MngomezuluTeam of the Year: StormersCoach of the Year: John Dobson (Stormers)Carling Currie Cup Premier Division Player of the Year: Sebastian de Klerk (Pumas)Carling Currie Cup First Division Player of the Year: Jaywinn Juries (Griffons)Provincial Women’s Player of the Year:Lusanda Dumke (Border Ladies)OUTsurance Referee of the Year:Aimee Barrett-TheronVodacom United Rugby Championship Player of the Season (announced lastyear): Evan Roos (Stormers)