eThekwini Municipality mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, said he was pleased that the overall financial situation of the city remained healthy while admitting there was room for improvement. This is after the municipality received an unqualified audit opinion for the 2021/2022 financial year. According to the municipality, the audit outcome remained unchanged from the 2020/2021 financial year. Municipal spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, said the city’s entities, the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre and the Durban Marine Theme Park (uShaka) received unqualified audits without findings. This continues the proud record the municipality has of receiving an unqualified audit opinion. ALSO READ | Attacks on Msunduzi staff condemned The report stated that the municipality had incurred R1,5 billion in irregular expenditure over the 2021/22 period; R495 million due to non-compliance related to local content, R317 million arose from the city’s integrity and investigations unit’s investigations, R274 million as a result of non-compliance related to contract extensions, R249 million for non-compliance related to procurement under contracts secured by another organ of state and R119 million was as a result of non-compliance related to deviations from procurement processes. However, Kaunda said the municipality was sitting with 51 days cash on hand, and the actual operating expenditure was below budget, despite a substantial increase in bulk purchases. He added that the municipality achieved a credible and balanced budget and a AA+ investment grade credit rating with a stable outlook despite the current economic climate. The mayor did, however, raise concerns over the rising amount owed to the municipality. Appropriate measures are being implemented, including debt relief programmes, approved by the council in December last year, which expire at the end of February along with continuous enforcement of the credit control policy. ALSO READ | Umgungundlovu residents urged to pay for services or face not receiving them The ANC in eThekwini region celebrated the improved financial management in eThekwini. In a statement, ANC eThekwini regional spokesperson, Mlondi Mkhize, paid tribute to all the staff in the municipality and its entities for their efforts aimed at ensuring prudent financial management. We salute mayor Mxolisi Kaunda, municipal manager, Musa Mbhele, the chief financial officer, Dr Sandile Mnguni and CEOs of entities for receiving an unqualified audit opinion as presented by the auditor-general (AG), Tsakani Maluleke in her latest report. Meanwhile, the DA in eThekwini welcomed the findings of the AG report, though the party believed the report exposed the municipality’s continued flouting of SEM processes and irregular expenditure. Since 2018, the metro has continued to rack up billions in unauthorised spending. “In the fiscal year 2021-2022, the ANC-led eThekwini Municipality racked up a bill of R1,5 billion in irregular expenditure, a significant rise over the preceding three years,” said DA caucus leader in eThekwini, Thabani Mthethwa. Mthethwa said the AG also revealed that the city had not recovered any of the money that was improperly spent and has no intentions to do so. The DA has long claimed that the city lacks consequence management, which the auditor-general has also stated. In addition, the city has only met 46% of its targeted objectives for water, sanitation, and electricity.This indicates a collapse in service delivery and proves that the municipality is regressing under the leadership of the ANC and, in particular, mayor Mxolisi Kaunda. ALSO READ | Opposition parties object to R76 million for bonuses Both the mayor and city manager, Musa Mbhele, agreed that the points raised on water, sanitation and electricity issues, especially distribution losses, were concerning. Moving forward, the focus will be on curtailing non-critical operating expenditure, allocating more funds to repairs and maintenance and increasing the day’s cash on hand, while improving service delivery to communities. Mbhele said appropriate plans were being implemented to address consequence management, contract management and performance information. “The municipality will continue to work towards the internal control framework to ensure that there is continued trust and confidence in the way the city is run. “The municipality will also be investigating the material irregularities and will initiate processes for the recovery of any confirmed financial losses, as well as strengthen controls to prevent recurrence of financial loss. “The municipality is committed to ensuring effective consequence management, without fear or favour, to build the right culture in the municipality. We are committed to moving towards performance, integrity, transparency, and accountability through more courageous, ethical, accountable, capable, and citizen-centric leadership.”