The Parliament portfolio committee on Basic Education concluded the first day of its week-long oversight visit programme in the Zululand District of KZN, visiting various schools. The chairperson of the portfolio committee, Bongiwe Mbinqo-Gigaba, said they were satisfied with school readiness in the province, but they are concerned by the continued lack of learner transport for qualifying pupils. Mbinqo-Gigaba said they were concerned that 1 148 schools are on the waiting list for learner transport in the province at the budgeted cost of R1,8 billion. ALSO READ | UKZN warns of false donation claims She said the committee noted the financial challenges faced by the provincial department and the public service in general.  The inability to provide transport is a direct and painful exclusion of pupils from the schooling system, particularly those from the poorest of the poor families, she said. While the cost implication is huge, the committee is of the view that further consideration should be made to make provision for learners that have to walk over three kilometres to reach their school. She added that the department has made pupil and teacher support material available, which has enabled teaching and learning to commence in schools visited. The ongoing commitment by circuit and district officials to provide adequate support to schools was noted. The availability of staff to support schools, especially when there’s a rise in vacancy, was also a concern to the committee. The centrality of strong leadership and management was also highlighted as a critical pillar in a functional school. The committee encouraged the sharing of best practice between schools to enhance management. They also reiterated the importance of functional and effective school governing bodies as an important pillar in enhancing governance. ALSO READ | Life coach offers support for those who failed matric Mbinqo-Gigaba said they were encouraged by the commitment to the pupils shown by teachers and senior management teams in various schools. The positive impact of the national school nutrition programme was evidenced in the district and the committee appreciates that learners continue to benefit directly through combatting of malnutrition, reduction of hunger and improvement of school attendance. She said they also welcomed the confirmation that service providers are delivering the food on time. According to the committee, schools within the Zululand educational district were mostly free of break-ins.  Also encouraging is that communities have adopted these schools and play an active role in keeping them safe. Schools are there to provide education to communities and should be protected by those communities. The committee visited four schools in the King Cetshwayo District yesterday.